What about depth first search in graphs you might not know it but you just learned how to solve a maze
using program because death first search is exactly like solving a maze right.
If you've ever done a real life maze yourself or looked at a program that tries to solve which path
to take the idea was to go as deep as you can and when you hit a roadblock or a place where you can't
go anymore you backtrack and find a different route and then you keep backtracking until you find the
desired node or you accept the maze and that's the beauty of death for search.
You can now implement an algorithm that solves a maze puzzle.
Isn't that cool just like in here.
If we do a def first search let's say we're starting at number one and 10 is the accept or nine is the
exit.
And actually one won't work because this Unlike our previous graph which was undirected that is had
both directions I can go back and forth.
This one is a directed graph that has specific directions that it can go.
So let's do a zero to nine.
If I do death for a search and do 9 or we'll start at zero trying to find nine.
Just like looking through a maze I go here I go here.
I keep going through my children and then try and go as deep as I can and I managed to get out of the
maze before I even search 6 and 5 over here.
And obviously this algorithm keeps going because I can tell it to stop at nine.
But you see how it was exactly like solving a maze.
And that's why we use recursion for death for a search right.
The idea of backtracking after a dead end and then repeating the walk down another path is just recursion
each step smaller than the other and then we go back and then keep doing the same thing over and over.
The idea of death for a search is that it's really good at saying does the path exist.
It doesn't tell us the shortest path but whether it even exists and uses less memory depth first search.
The one downside with it is that if you have a really really deep graph then it can get very slow because
the deeper the graph the more recursive calls the more space complexity you add because we have to keep
track of those function calls on a stack.